## Some SQL 

This post will have some handy SQL queries.
Below there are some simple scenarios that I have encountered.

### MaxMax AND GROUP BY

Example 

So, you want to get latest start date for an employee(s) who have more than 15 subordinates

```*.sql
SELECT  MAX(MAX(start_date))
FROM    employees
WHERE   emp_type = 'sub'
GRUOP   BY start_date
HAVING  COUNT(*) > 15;
```


### Delete duplicate rows

```*.sql
SELECT	<selected_column>,
COUNT	(ani_id) AS NumOccurrences
FROM	<table_name>
GROUP 	BY <selected_column>
HAVING 	(COUNT(<selected_column>) > 1 )


DELETE 
FROM	<table name> A
WHERE	ROWID > (SELECT min(rowid)
FROM	<table name> B
WHERE 	a.<selected_column> = b.<selected_column>);

```

= Code Review =

<pre>
Oracle: ICBF Coding Standards for PL/SQL
</pre>

Author: Anthony Galvin

; Introduction : What follows are guidelines on the development of Oracle PL/SQL code. It is expected that all developers within ICBF become familiar with these guidelines and use them in their work. Additionally, should old code need to be altered, the developer will apply these standards to the code its entirety as a unit.

; Schema usage : Except in very special circumstances, the utilities schema should be used to store all ICBF tables and code. In the rare circumstances where this is not sufficient, the proposed creation of any new schemas should be passed by other developers/DBAs as there will be a knock on impact on storage requirements and backup solutions

; Table Creation : The creation of tables on the Iris Schema should be avoided where possible. This will avoid the trap of wasting space. A temporary table exists on Utilities for the storing od session specific data: TEMP_SESSION_DATA. Data stored in this table may be referenced for the duration of a session, but will not be visible to others. In addition, the termination of the session will lead to the termination of the table. Finally, an added bonus to the temporary table is that it is created in the temporary tablespace, and has performance advantages over normal 'permanent' tables

Tables should be named to reflect their contents or their function, and be relatively self-explanatory, regardless of the length of the table name. (Up to given limits).



The same applies to column names.

Storage parameters should be specified at all times, especially with regard to the intended tablespace for the data. As a general rule, tables should be assigned to the USERS tablespace. If possible, the first extent should be specified large enough to hold the entire tables contents, while not exclusively large

If the table must be created for the purposes of temporarily backing up the data, its name should include the date and the developeres initials.

;Index Creation :
Indexes should be named after the table on which they act with a suitable suffix, (I for index and a number), e.g.

ANIMAL

simarily, Primary and foreign keys should be named:

ANIMAL_P1
ANIMAL_F1

Again suitable storage parameters should be set for an index, with special attention paid to the intended tablespace for the index. The default tablespace for Index creation is USER_INDEX

;SQL Standards :

* For all reserved words and function calls, use upper case. Column names and table names should be in lower case
* Start each clause on a new line
* When using parentheses, the opening and closing brackets will be on the same line or vertically aligned
* Use spaces to indent, not tabs. If using TOAD use TAB 4.
* Always use spaces after keywords or commas.
* If the column list or table list will not fit on one line, indent on the second line
* Write join conditions at the beginning of the WHERE clause
* Only use the ORDER BY clause if there is a requirement to sort data
* Only use numbers for the ORDER BY columns when using the set operators (UNION, MINUS and INTERSECT). Otherwise use column names


<pre>
SELECT TO_CHAR(SYSDATE, 'DD-MON-YYYY'),
       t.column   
FROM   table t
WHERE  EXISTS (
              SELECT 'X'
              FROM   table2 t2
              WHERE  t2.column2 = t.column3
               )
AND    column4 > 10;




</pre>

Stored PL/SQL code - Documentation and comments

All code developed for use on the IRIS database should be intended for storage within the UTILITIES schema. Standard stored code, whether it be a procedure, function or trigger should include a code history section along the lines of the one given here

<pre>
    /*
    ===================================================================
    Procedure Name:            <PROC_NAME>
    Created By:                <name>
    Reviewed By:
    Create Date:               <date>
    Purpose:                   <description>           

    Change History:
    ===============
    Date:        Author:             Change:
    ----------  -----------------   ---------------------------------------
    <date>	<name>              <change reason>

    ========================================================================
    */

This section should be within the code, immediately after the CREATE OR REPLACE declaration. Documentation within this section should refer to the Project or helpdesk job that required the creation of this code, plus any other documentation to which the code is related

Outside of the code history section at the start of a PL/SQL declarative section, all comments should use '--', with long comments broken up over several lines.

Make sure that comments add value to the code

Use of white space within code :

Individual operations should be placed on new lines.

Show the logical structure of the code using indentation (Four spaces)

Use spaces within a line to increase readability, for example, place a space after a comma, a blank line after a unit of functionality.

; PL/SQL Object Naming Conventions :

Stored code should be contained within Packages wherever possible. Individual procedeures will only be used where absoloutly necessary. This will facilitate the logical grouping of related code and utilities.

Package names will begin 'P_'. Subprograms do not necessarily require prefixes. All object names should reflect the functionality within and the schema on which they act. Within certain areas of functionality, where it is foreseen that a large amount of code will be required, (> 2000 lines), a seperate package will be allowed, and should be named suitably.

A package name could therefore be P_IRIS_ROUTINES with a sub-program called clean_alt_numbers.

A package P_MISC will be intended for holding all code that is not easily classifiable under the guidelines given here.

An additional package P_IRIS_ADMIN will contain programs developed for the administration of the database

Declaring Section Naming Conventions :

Three things must be considered when naming a variable. The scope of the variable, its datatype and its intended value.

* Scope: Local (l) or global (g)
* Datatype: VARCHAR2(v), CHAR(c), NUMBER (n), DATE (d), BOOLEAN (b) etc...
* Value: Data from a column in a table, or a record from a table, or a return from a function.

Use lowercase, except when you want to delimit the beginning of a new word.

Some examples:

* lvName VARCHAR2(10);
* ldDOB  staff.dob%TYPE;
* gvErrMsg VARCHAR2(300);
* gnErrCode NUMBER;
* gnPi NUMBER CONSTANT := 3.14159;
* lvCountryCode CHAR(2) := 'ie';

Similarly sp_calc_bonus(
ivName IN staff.name%TYPE,
inPercent IN NUMBER,
ionWage IN OUT NUMBER)

Where possible, use anchoring (%TYPE or %ROWTYPE).

Cursor names will be prefixed with 'lc' or 'gc' depending on their scope. The actual name should reflect their purpose. When referencing a cursor FOR loop, use the name of the cursor, replacing 'c' with 'r'. For example:

For lrAllName IN lcAllNames LOOP

User declared Exceptions should be named as:
lxName (or) gxName

Where 'Name' is replaced by some word suitable to the exception in question

; Procedure for PL/SQL Logging :

In order to standardise this aspect of database development, a standard log table to be used from now on. The table will only be interfaced via a package which all developers may call from within their own procedures

A daily job will dump all the table contents to a text file on the Database server and when complete, truncate the log table.

This will ensure that we have a standard method of recording messages from the application (as far as our interactions with IRIS are concerned), and that these messages are recorded in a manner consistent with the quality demands of the organisation.

The standard logging mechanism will consist of the following objects:

